today's video is sponsored by Skillshare
so it's 2020 and most of us have some
kind of New Year's resolution and if
yours happens to be to learn a new skill
or maybe even pick up a new hobby then
skill share is definitely something that
can help you out although being
convenient and much more affordable than
going to in-person classes and workshops
Skillshare has courses for just about
everything from art film business
lifestyle and more so if you're not sure
where to start I'm going to recommend
the course real productivity how to
build habits that last by Thomas Frank
because all too often our resolutions go
down the drain at once real life creeps
in you can try this course or any others
free of charge since Skillshare is
giving away two free months of premium
membership to help you explore your
creativity and after that it's only
about ten bucks a month all you need to
do to take advantage of this offer is
head over to the link in the description
and with that said thanks again to
Skillshare for supporting the channel
and now on to the show information comes
back to us so what investigations found
out and that's the first eight inside
that we face really and that's partly
because of the problems of where the
ship was registered
Rebecca Cory M was just twenty four
years old and employed as a crew member
on the Disney wonder cruise ship a job
that just a year prior took her from her
native England all the way to the US
where she would begin her training to
most this probably sounds like a dream a
chance to work a non-traditional job
surrounded by Disney magic all while
being able to travel to beautiful
locations such as the Bahamas on company
dime but this of course was not all
there was to the story in March of 2011
Rebecca was once again out at sea aboard
the Disney Wonder it was business as
usual until Rebecca didn't show up for
her shift something that on a normal day
most would assume could only be
explained by her accidentally sleeping
in or losing track of time
curious the staff tried calling her
through the PA system to no avail
they even checked her room but
she was nowhere to be found Rebecca had
vanished
to this day Rebecca hasn't been found
and everyone involved in the
investigation from Disney all the way to
the authorities have been widely
criticized for not conducting what
people consider a proper search of
course Rebecca's case is not unique
which we'll get into more later and it's
even reasonable to say that the
criticism of this case was also
augmented by the fact that the cruise
industry has what's become known as its
dark side
however credible or not something that
certain pockets of people are aware of
but the mainstream stay generally
oblivious to for most going on a luxury
cruise of any kind is the stereotypical
idea of a perfect getaway vacation in
fact according to Forbes accom 2017 saw
a whopping 26 million cruise passengers
and by 2018 that number had jumped to 28
point five million according to maritime
executive comm needless to say the
industry is currently experiencing a
boom but as business continues to grow
so do questions surrounding onboard
safety and liability the main point of
contention for many would be these
statistics it's estimated that anywhere
between 200 and 250 people have gone
overboard from various cruise ships
since the year 2000 and many suspect
foul play in the cases that remain
unsolved some liken this phenomenon to
similar a seemingly connected
disappearances in US national parks a
conspiracy theory dubbed missing a41 one
but is it really safe to say that all of
these cases are connected at a single
point the theories behind what happened
to Rebecca vary widely some say she was
swept away by a rogue wave something
many others challenged due to the sheer
height of the ship others note that the
night for Rebecca disappeared she could
be seen via CCTV having what appeared to
be an upsetting conversation on these
ships internal phones there is of course
only speculation over what was really
going on in Rebecca's life before she
vanished but rumors state that she's
been going through a rough time with a
romantic partner something that's been
used
sir the theory that Rebecca voluntarily
jumped from the ship to end her life
opposers of this theory include
Rebecca's own family who point out that
tickets to Disneyland Paris had been
found amongst her belongings and on top
of that Rebecca had spoken to them about
plans for the future to them this theory
just didn't make any sense
the speculation continues and varies
based on who you ask some will say it
was human trafficking others will say it
was murder and some assume that she
simply fell off the ship by accident
while playing around these theories
mirror the ones people prescribed to the
wider phenomenon of people disappearing
at sea and surely to some degree they
have to be correct there are for example
people who have been murdered on cruise
ships
take one mickey connie sake who was
killed by her ex-husband during a 2006
cruise she was at first reported missing
but her strangled body washed up two
days later
likewise accidents of course have also
happened this was how Sarah Kirby
intended on celebrating her 30th
birthday but after having several drinks
while on a cruise she fell overboard
fighting for her life I just prayed to
God over and over please don't let me
die out here surveillance video captured
a cruise line terror I just remember
leaning over the balcony to look at the
side of the ship and the next thing I
knew I was in the lock each case is its
own isolated event and without looking
into every single one of them in
painstaking detail and without witnesses
we can't say for sure what happened to
the victims looking at this phenomenon
and trying to connect it to a single
evil entity or crime ring is maybe the
wrong angle maybe the question isn't
about what we don't know but rather what
we do know there is only one thing that
solidly connects anyone who goes missing
from cruise ships and that would
obviously be these ships themselves
unfortunately missing persons cases
aren't actually the only stain on the
cruise industry's reputation all kinds
of crimes take place aboard cruise ships
since they are after all essentially
floating communities and although
isolated they do a mirror their
land-based counterparts according to
business inside
and the Department of Transportation
sexual assaults are the most common
crime to occur on cruise ships with
eighty-two alleged incidents in 2018 in
second place from that year with 22
reported incidents was a theft exceeding
$10,000 the details going forward tell
us very different stories depending on
who you ask while all of these crimes
are absolutely inexcusable the cruise
industry argues that overall their ships
are still relatively safe when compared
to crime statistics on land
cruising org a site maintained by the
cruise aligns international association
or clia claims that crime on board is
not only overstated but actually rare so
much so that cruise ships are supposedly
according to them anyway 25 times safer
than an average American city according
to this infographic on their site they
also claim that cruising is the safest
way to travel and know that the presence
of onboard security and medical
personnel while this might all sound
promising for many it still isn't enough
statements like these tend to be met
with criticism from those who feel that
the industry is sidestepping and
deflecting from the questions at hand
as if to say well crime happens
everywhere else so why single us out
maritime lawyer Jim Walker is especially
vocal about the issue and points out an
interesting the legal conundrum that
most don't even consider when stepping
aboard a cruise ship the chances are
very slim that this is going to come to
a successful investigation and
conclusion there are lots of factors
that come into play in a situation like
this this particular cruise line Royal
Caribbean cruises is the Liberian
corporation they registered their
business and a Monrovia Liberia in the
continent of Africa this particular ship
the brilliance of the Seas is registered
in the Bahamas we have a potential crime
occurring in international waters
between Greece and Turkey it's it's
pretty much in in a no-man's land right
now like you just heard the issue of
jurisdiction is a huge one when it comes
to crimes that take place at sea and one
of the biggest criticisms of the
industry has been the fact that such
risks
seem to not be properly disclosed to
customers if an incident were to occur
however big or small most customers are
under the assumption that they're
subject to US law or laws of wherever
they boarded from this was actually the
crux of Rebecca Corey m's case and if
you'll recall she was a British national
working on a ship that was assumed to be
American in reality however the Disney
Wonder was registered in the Bahamas for
tax reasons and thus Rebecca's case was
passed on to the Royal Bahamas police
force now despite this the ship was
based at the Port of Los Angeles which
meant that law enforcement had to fly in
from the Bahamas to meet the ship upon
its return
according to the Guardian only one
detective would show up one person
tasked with a massive undertaking of
investigating an entire cruise ship with
a capacity of thousands to top this off
the detective had only been on site for
a single day it should be noted that in
2010 the crews of vessel security and
Safety Act went into law making it a
requirement that all cruise lines report
incidents involving US citizens to the
FBI but as we know Rebecca wasn't
actually American the law also outlined
new safety requirements for cruise ships
such as peepholes on doors to allow for
easy identification for passengers along
with a 42-inch requirement for all ship
rails something that would hopefully
help quell the man-overboard incidents
despite this they would of course
continue and according to The Washington
Post in 2018 there was a total of 19
deaths from overboard incidents out of
23 known cases setting aside foul play
the CLIA claims that Man Overboard
incidents in general are extremely rare
and almost always the result of what
they call intentional or reckless acts
while this may be true the issue of
liability is still up for debate
featuring two main schools of thought
let's turn back to Sarah Kerby the woman
who got intoxicated two fell off a
cruise ship and survived the comments
pretty much entirely consist of people
mocking Sarah for getting intoxicated
enough to fall in the first place many
of course support the idea of personal
responsibility and think it's common
sense to not get drunk in a possibly
dangerous environment on the other side
of the coin
have those critical of what could be
called booze cruise culture it's no
secret that drinking is a large part of
the appeal of cruise vacations and it's
undoubtedly part of the marketing
gimmick since this is the case some
argue then the cruise companies are well
aware that their customers are likely to
get heavily intoxicated and possibly act
recklessly many also point to this as a
possible cause for sexual assault being
the most frequent crime during cruises
still is there anything more that cruise
lines can actually do to prevent
tragedies some people think so and point
out land-based parallels that take such
precautions like barriers on bridges or
locked hotel room windows to prevent
people from either falling or
intentionally jumping in the case of
alcohol it should actually be noted that
there are things called dram shop laws
that can vary from state to state in the
US but in general they make it possible
to hold establishments such as bars or
restaurants liable for the actions of a
customer who was served additional
alcohol while already visibly
intoxicated overall the darker side of
cruising is a messy complicated plane to
traverse and many who look into it are
often left frustrated at the murky image
formed by the limited data available to
the public
statistics can be unreliable especially
when you're relying on a business to
report incidents a business that's hyper
protective of its fun luxury
family-friendly image keep in mind while
Cruise Lines are now required to make
reports to the FBI there is a gap in
time before their boots are on the
ground and until law enforcement shows
up it's really just the cruise line
themselves who can do anything to help
you the burden of crime-scene
preservation something integral to any
legal case falls upon the cruise company
while going on a cruise getaway is in
most cases safe it's probably best to
still be mindful of the reality at hand
and the possible nightmare that could
occur if something were to go wrong as
mentioned earlier Rebekah was never
found and at this point it's unlikely
that her body will ever be located her
family unfortunately won't be getting
any closure
hey everyone it's me I'm off script
first of all thank you so much for
watching
forgive me if I sound a little bit
wrecked in this video I am really really
really tired right now but anyway it is
time to thank the patrons for this
episode
Lance Joel T Gorman O'Connor H Andrew L
Ben shards of glass
Connor M Trixie be no no no no no Nick V
Krista s Jeremy P Raphael see mark a
Shelby SS / Nick's Eric H year may M I
cannot I'm never gonna be able to
pronounce your name I'm so sorry Keith Z
Julian F of Akkad Rose Q of EHS squid J
shadow rain danielle g m-- @ j & sir i
thank you all so much for your support
and thank you to everyone even if you're
just watching and you're not a patron or
anything like that i still super
appreciate you tuning in and with that
said I'm gonna get off this mic now
because I'm horrible off script and I
hope you all have a nice day I'll see
you all again next time